content/resources/blog/openhw-group-seeking-ceo/index.md, before:

---
title: OpenHW Group Seeking CEO 
subtitle: Job Description
headline: OpenHW Group Seeking CEO
date: 2023-05-29
hide_page_title: true
categories: ["blogs"]
summary: >- 
  We are looking for an experienced Chief Executive Officer to develop, oversee
  and control all strategic and business aspects of the non-profit corporation.
author: OpenHW Group
container: container 
---

## OpenHW Group CEO Job Description

We are looking for an experienced Chief Executive Officer to develop, oversee
and control all strategic and business aspects of the non-profit corporation.
Reporting to the OpenHW Board of Directors, you will be the first in command in
the company and responsible for creating a vision for success as well as giving
the proper strategic direction to OpenHW staff and member organizations.

To thrive as a CEO you must be a prudent manager and an inspiring leader. The
ideal candidate will have a business mindset and technical knowledge of the
semiconductor landscape, SoC & IP development process with specific RISC-V
processor knowledge a definite asset.

## CEO responsibilities include:

1. Developing high quality business strategies and plans ensuring their
   alignment with short-term and long-term objectives
2. Leading and motivating OpenHW staff, Technical, Marketing, Asia & European
   Working Groups to advance overall engagement and to develop a high
   performing managerial team
3. Overseeing all operations and business activities to ensure they produce the
   desired results and are consistent with the overall strategy and mission
4. Make high-quality strategic decisions to drive overall membership growth,
   revenue growth and open-source IP adoption
5. Enforce adherence to open-source legal guidelines and in-house policies to
   maintain the OpenHW Group’s non-profit legality and business ethics
6. Review financial and non-financial reports to ensure quarterly and annual
   filings
7. Build trust relations with key OpenHW members, partners and stakeholders 
8. Maintain a deep knowledge of the markets and key target segments of the
   company

## Requirements and skills

1. Proven experience as CEO or in other managerial position
2. Experience in developing profitable strategies and implementing vision
3. Strong understanding of corporate finance and performance management
   principles
4. Experience with diverse business functions such as engineering, marketing,
   finance etc
5. In-depth knowledge of open-source corporate governance and general
   management best practices
6. Strong understanding of intellectual property rights, open-source licensing,
   contracts, and agreements.
7. An entrepreneurial mindset with outstanding organizational and leadership
   skills
8. Analytical abilities and problem-solving skills
9. Excellent communication and public speaking skills with frequent travel /
   presentations at industry events.
10. Masters in Computer / Electrical Engineering and Masters in Business
    Administration or equivalent relevant experience
11. Experience managing global teams

Commit message:

Add contact info and extend content for CEO post

content/resources/blog/openhw-group-seeking-ceo/index.md, after:

---
title: OpenHW Group Seeking CEO 
subtitle: Job Description
headline: OpenHW Group Seeking CEO
date: 2023-05-29
hide_page_title: true
categories: ["blogs"]
summary: >- 
  We are looking for an experienced Chief Executive Officer to develop, oversee
  and control all strategic and business aspects of the non-profit corporation.
author: OpenHW Group
container: container 
---

## OpenHW Group CEO Job Description

With [Rick's retirement announcement](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/rickoco_dear-colleagues-after-many-years-of-leading-activity-7065349320228622337-CkZd?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop),
we're looking for an experienced Chief Executive Officer to develop, oversee
and control all strategic and business aspects of the non-profit corporation.
Reporting to the OpenHW Board of Directors, you will be the first in command in
the company and responsible for creating a vision for success as well as giving
the proper strategic direction to OpenHW staff and member organizations.

To thrive as a CEO you must be a prudent manager and an inspiring leader. The
ideal candidate will have a business mindset and technical knowledge of the
semiconductor landscape, SoC & IP development process with specific RISC-V
processor knowledge a definite asset.

## CEO responsibilities include:

1. Developing high quality business strategies and plans ensuring their
   alignment with short-term and long-term objectives
2. Leading and motivating OpenHW staff, Technical, Marketing, Asia & European
   Working Groups to advance overall engagement and to develop a high
   performing managerial team
3. Overseeing all operations and business activities to ensure they produce the
   desired results and are consistent with the overall strategy and mission
4. Make high-quality strategic decisions to drive overall membership growth,
   revenue growth and open-source IP adoption
5. Enforce adherence to open-source legal guidelines and in-house policies to
   maintain the OpenHW Group’s non-profit legality and business ethics
6. Review financial and non-financial reports to ensure quarterly and annual
   filings
7. Build trust relations with key OpenHW members, partners and stakeholders 
8. Maintain a deep knowledge of the markets and key target segments of the
   company

## Requirements and skills

1. Proven experience as CEO or in other managerial position
2. Experience in developing profitable strategies and implementing vision
3. Strong understanding of corporate finance and performance management
   principles
4. Experience with diverse business functions such as engineering, marketing,
   finance etc
5. In-depth knowledge of open-source corporate governance and general
   management best practices
6. Strong understanding of intellectual property rights, open-source licensing,
   contracts, and agreements.
7. An entrepreneurial mindset with outstanding organizational and leadership
   skills
8. Analytical abilities and problem-solving skills
9. Excellent communication and public speaking skills with frequent travel /
   presentations at industry events.
10. Masters in Computer / Electrical Engineering and Masters in Business
    Administration or equivalent relevant experience
11. Experience managing global teams 

Contact us here at <info@openhwgroup.org> if you have interest in the OpenHW
CEO role.
